So the first thing I'm gonna do here,
I don't wanna write it out again.
So I'm just gonna copy and
paste the exact same pool kind
of thing here, and
we're gonna put that right here.
So now I have this pool
that I can query from.
Again, make sure you are,
whatever you call your database, right?
Make sure your database is running, make
sure it has all the data that you expect.
Now, this is gonna work until that works.
Okay, here we're gonna put the search
functionality or list functionalities,
it was aptly pointed out to me since
they were not actually filtering It all.
Okay, then I'm gonna say const
rows = await pool.query.
And then here,
I'm gonna put this on multiple lines.
If you use backticks in JavaScript,
you can put things on multiple lines, and
that can be helpful for me.
SELECT DISTINCT ON recipe_id.
Say r.recipe_id,
just to be extra specific.
We're gonna say r.recipe_id, r.tittle.
We're gonna COALESCE (rp.url,
"default.jpg) as URL,
Okay, FROM recipes r, we need to join but
we also need to include all recipes,
not just ones that have images.
So we're gonna do a LEFT JOIN to
include everything from the FROM table.
We're gonna LEFT JOIN
from recipes_photos rp, ON,
R.recipe_id =
rp.recipe_id.
No parameters here because we're just
listing everything in the database in this
particular case.
A useful thing to do later
if you wanted to go and
expand your knowledge is you
could do pagination on this.
And then here I'm just
gonna say res.json rows,
which is what came back here.
And then we get rid of all this.
Cool, take a look and
make sure I'm not out of my mind.
So recipes, and I crashed it.
Where did I crash?
This needs an extra,
let's try that, I forgot a,
No, that's not it,
because that's what it's supposed to be.
So let's actually see what I did wrong.
Unterminated string,
which is the default.jpg,
that is actually what's wrong.
So make sure you have both
of the single quotes there.
Now, let's try that again,
and there you go.
So see these have photos,
the ones that do.
And, You can see
some of these have this photo that looks
like this one, that is the default photo.
Whatever, that's when your address is
giving up, it says whatever, I don't care.
Let's hop into the get.
So again, I broke this into two photo, not
two photo, I broke this into two queries.
And now just make sense to me.
But just like programming and there's like
a ton of ways to do the one thing, same
thing in SQL, there's a lot of different
ways that you could have done this.
You could have definitely done
this in three queries, right?
One of the recipe table,
one of the recipe photos table, and
one of the ingredients table.
And I would have definitely
accepted that as correct as well.
Const ingredientsPromise = pool.query,
this is just how I like
to code JavaScript,
you don't have to do it the same way,
you could definitely do an await here.
But here I'm actually just
gonna grab the promise.
And then I'm gonna say SELECT
i.title as ingredient_title,
i.image, as ingredient_image,
and i.type as ingredient_type.
I'll grab that,
FROM recipe_ingredients ri.
INNER JOIN, I like to put
these extra wide space things,
just to let me know I'm kinda starting
another little clause, right?
You can basically think this
is like a comma in my speech.
Ingredients i,
ON i.id = ri.ingredient_id,
WHERE ri.recipe_id = 1.
We've more or less already
written this out together, right?
But the idea here is we
have the ingredients table.
We're grabbing all of the various
ingredients that exist for
any one recipe based on
what the recipe ID is.
So here we're just gonna
give it the recipeId.
Okay, this is the first
query that I chose to write.
The second query that I'm going to
choose to write, Is the photos one,
const photosPromise = pool.query.
SELECT r.title, r.body.
This is what I'm saying, this part could
actually could have been a third query
where you just get the recipe details.
I chose to put it together with
the photos cuz that made sense to me,
it's one query wasn't that hard to do.
Here I'm gonna say COALESCE, Rp.url,
to default.jpg like we saw above, As url.
FROM recipes r.
You can put that on a new line or
not, either way.
Here we're gonna say LEFT JOIN, right?
Cuz we wanna grab all
recipes no matter what.
Or rather this is like
a single detail page.
If there is no photos we
still want the recipe,
that's what the LEFT JOIN means
in this particular context.
Recipes_photos rp,
ON rp.recipe_id = r.recipe_id.
And then lastly we need our
WHERE r.recipe_id = $1.
And then need to give it
the recipe ID as well.
Okay, so now I have these two promises.
Here's my thinking here.
You can say await here and await here.
The way that await works is it's going
to pause execution until this happens.
Then it's gonna go here and it's gonna
pause execution to this happens.
Actually, want both of those queries
to go out at the same time, right?
Because it doesn't matter what order they
come back to me, and I wanna pause and
wait for both of them, right?
So that makes sense?
So you can do this with
something called promise.all.
This is just a JavaScript thing and
how I would write this code.
So I can say this is gonna
be photosResponse, and
then ingredientsResponse = Promise.all,
and you're just given
an array of promises.
So this would be photosPromise,
and then ingredientsPromise.
And then all I have to do here is,
I say, await.
So here's what's gonna
happen kind of in real time.
It's going to call this but
it's not going to wait.
It's going to immediately
call this one as well.
So two queries are going out,
not simultaneously but
in quick order of execution, right?
It's not going to wait to call
photosPromise for this one to complete.
Here, when I say await Promise.all, it's
going to wait for both of these to finish.
Once both of these have finished,
then the execution will resume, okay?
And then now I have photosResponse
here and ingredientsResponse here.
And I can just say const photosRow
= photosResponse.rows, and
const ingredients,
Rows = ingredientsResponse.rows, right?
Then down here, res.json, Ingredients,
And it's gonna give ingredientRows.
Photos.
So if you remember here on the photo rows,
if you look at the code
here in the detail.js,
it's expecting them to just
be direct images, just URLs.
It's gonna give them back to as objects,
so I need to transform them.
There's a couple of ways you could
totally do this, you could say for, and
I'll just leave this,
this might be the easiest way.
Let i = 0, i is less than
photosRows.length, i++,
we'll just call this const photos = [].
And we'll just say photos.push
(photoRows[i]) url, right?
So then this photos array
will just be URLs, right?
It's just gonna be strings
instead of objects.
And then here I can just say photos,
photos.
Right, these photos that I created up
here or I can just say, photos like that.
Title, in photosRows,
we can just grab the first one, right?
And grab the title off of that,
cuz it's gonna be the same for
all of them and same with body.
It's gonna be photosRows 0.body.
But if you did a separate query for that,
you would grab it out
of the separate query.
So if you're reading through my completed
code, it's a little bit more clever in
terms of how it does it,
just cuz that's how I write code.
I try to be a little bit more explicit
here as we wrote it together.
But just to walk you
through it really quick.
I have it here as well.
API for completed recipes.
Here, I do all
the destructuring in one line.
But notice it's grabbing photosRows and
ingredientsRows the same way.
It's just doing a little
bit more terse syntax.
And then here, instead of doing like a for
loop to grab all the URLs out,
it does does exactly the same thing.
Otherwise exactly the same.
So let's get rid of that and
get rid of that.
And get rid of that.
So now, let's go look at our project.
This still works okay,
let's look at cookies.
We get butter, eggs,
brown sugar, milk, sugar.
And notice we're getting all
of our photos down here and
all the ingredients get
put in here as well.
So it works.
Hope it's very demonstrative of like this
is really what is like writing SQL code
together with back end code.
This is generally what it feels like.